README.md, before:

# Simple RNN

Messing around with compiling functions to single-layer RNNs.

They have a single matrix of weights `M :: (I ++ S ++ O) -> (S ++ O)`, where `S` is hidden a state vector and `I` and `O` are input/output vectors.

We can compile terms like `(int (d i))` to matrices. In this example, the output approximately integrates the derivative of the input, giving the input back with a delay. It produces the matrix:

```
   s1  s2  o
[[ 1.  1.  0.]  i
 [ 0. -1.  0.]  s1
 [ 0.  0.  1.]  s2
 [ 0.  0.  1.]] o
```

`s1` is `i` lagged by a time step.
`s2` is `i-s1`.
`o`  is `s2+o`.

So it's equivalent to the term `(+ (d i) o)` and therefore `(+ (- i (+ i)) o)`. Note `(+ i)` isn't redundant because it introduces a 1 step lag.

### Files

- `main.ipynb`: Very simple agents that can only do basic matrix stuff
    - the last example is a PID controller
- `main2.ipynb`: Adds unary functions like `log`, `exp`, etc.

### TODO

- support operations: 
    - we want `M :: (ISO ++ log(ISO) ++ exp(ISO) ++ ...) -> (S ++ O)`, where `ISO := (I ++ S ++ O)`
    - see diagram below
    - FIXME: this fails because 0 * inf == nan
- more forms in the compiled language
    - ex: `(* x y) := (exp (+ (log x) (log y)))`
- constants
- also produce an initial state vector
- optimize the compiled output
- program synthesis (backprop)
- pretty diagrams so it looks like its doing something

- use square `(I ++ S ++ O) -> (I ++ S ++ O)` matrices and use composition
    - this could speed up very simple agents, but doesn't work for full agents


![Simple RNN with operations diagram](pics/diagram.jpg)

Commit message:

work/notes towards multiple inputs/outputs

README.md, after:

# Simple RNN

Messing around with compiling functions to single-layer RNNs.

They have a single matrix of weights `M :: (I ++ S ++ O) -> (S ++ O)`, where `S` is hidden a state vector and `I` and `O` are input/output vectors.

We can compile terms like `(int (d i))` to matrices. In this example, the output approximately integrates the derivative of the input, giving the input back with a delay. It produces the matrix:

```
   s1  s2  o
[[ 1.  1.  0.]  i
 [ 0. -1.  0.]  s1
 [ 0.  0.  1.]  s2
 [ 0.  0.  1.]] o
```

`s1` is `i` lagged by a time step.
`s2` is `i-s1`.
`o`  is `s2+o`.

So it's equivalent to the term `(+ (d i) o)` and therefore `(+ (- i (+ i)) o)`. Note `(+ i)` isn't redundant because it introduces a 1 step lag.

### Files

- `main.ipynb`: Very simple agents that can only do basic matrix stuff
    - the last example is a PID controller
- `main2.ipynb`: Adds unary functions like `log`, `exp`, etc.

### TODO

#### Main
- compiler support for multiple o's
- compiler should produce an initial state vector
    - use this to implement constants (just need a permanent 1 in the state vector)
- implement environment in PID example as it's own agent
    - this just requires a nice way to hook agents together
    - draw this out first

#### Main2
- support operations: 
    - we want `M :: (ISO ++ log(ISO) ++ exp(ISO) ++ ...) -> (S ++ O)`, where `ISO := (I ++ S ++ O)`
    - see diagram below
    - FIXME: this fails because 0 * inf == nan
- more forms in the compiled language
    - ex: `(* x y) := (exp (+ (log x) (log y)))`

#### Maybe
- make `comp` less bad. ids of nodes shouldn't also be their matrix/vector index.
    - use symbols/strings as the ids. ex: i0, s0, o0
    - have to deal with nodes which are both outputs and state used by other outputs.
- program synthesis (backprop)
- optimize the compiled output
- use square `(I ++ S ++ O) -> (I ++ S ++ O)` matrices and use composition
    - this could speed up very simple agents, but doesn't work for full agents


![Simple RNN with operations diagram](pics/diagram.jpg)
